## Twitter Talk vs Real World Data

### Introduction
#### 

### Background and Related work
#### There are many discussions and studies on social media velocity and how this effects things like research, relationships, and conversations. Here is a cited paper.https://www.researchgate.net/profile/JanKietzmann/publication/232066851_Unpacking_the_Social_Media_Phenomenon/links/0912f507522cd0d6b6000000/Unpacking-the-Social-Media-Phenomenon.pdf. However, there is nothing directly tied to homelessness, or from what I can find. I have also come accross reseach showing the relation between social media posts and cited research. https://journals.lww.com/jaaosglobal/Fulltext/2020/09000/Correlation_Between_Social_Media_Posts_and.5.aspx. They were able to find a weak correlation between the number of academic citations per article and the number of tweets. My research question is formualted somewhere between these two studies done. I want to be able to use the second study to help guide me through the statistical analyses of my research.

### Research Question
### Does the amount of social media communication (tweet counts) on homelessness reflect the true statistics of homelessness (data.world) ? 

### Methodology
#### I am planning on using a correlation test in R and doing visualizations in tableau. I will do a correlation test for 3 to 5 years and them compare the correlation in those years against each other. If time permits, I will also look at the possible correlation during COVID-19. I am planning on doing this analysis because I am interested in seeing how social media and news discussion reflects reality. I feel that recently the talk around homelessness in Seattle has increased but I want to confirm if this is linear or not, both rising. This is important because we will be able to see if news sources are pushing certain agendas or not and whether this is an increasing problem or just more visible. I hope to learn about social media data and to see if my presumptions are true. I plan to present this in Google Slides. The data I plan to use will come from Data.world and Seattle.gov. I will use Twitters advanced search to filter tweets about Seattle homelessness. I will be able to get specific counts from specific data ranges to compare against the homelessness data. The data.world data set includes many variables such as total count, demographic, employment, duration of homelessness, cause, etc. Here is the link. You must sign up for a free account. https://data.world/sasha/count-us-in-report-homelessness-data. The Twitter search is not a data set. I created my own data set using their advanced search. Thanks to my collegues, they were able to recommend me to use this (thanks, Lunden). I decided to center the dates from 2016 to 2020. I then used a random number generator to select a data from 0-31 to select a day out of each month for 60 months. Hencde generating a dataset of 60 points. These 60 points were how many tweets in that respective day contained "Seattle homeless" or "Seattle homelessness".  Here is a link to the advanced search. https://twitter.com/search-advanced?lang=en

#### As far as the licensing, all I can find is "Other" on my data.world dataset. This dataset will assist me with the total counts and I may be able to go even deeper into why homelessness is increasing (if it is). I do not see any ethical concerns at this moment.

